dev-tea-sinon/reveal.js/content.md, before:

### Sinon.js

Documentation: https://sinonjs.org/

---

#### What is Sinon?

- "Test doubles": Spies, Stubs, Mocks
  - Async code
  - Code w/ external deps (db/network calls)
  - Side effects
- Testing-framework-agnostic

---

#### Spies

- **Watch** functions being called w/out changing their behavior
- Provides information about func calls:
  - Return values
    - Args
    - number of times called
    - `this` context
    - Exceptions thrown

---

#### Stubs

- **Replace** functions
  - Test the ways the deps of your code can be expected to act and the side effects
  - Trigger different code paths (e.g. error-handling)
  - Stub out async funcs - force them to run callbacks immediately

---

#### Mocks

- **Combination** betwn spies and stubs
  - Set expectations for the way a function will be called
  - Observes the way a function was called
  - Verify after function completes that all expectations are met

---

#### Also - Fakes

- A fake is a Function that records args, return value, `this context`, and exception thrown (if any) for all of its calls
- Immutable - once it's created, its behavior cannot be changed

Commit message:

examples added for spies, mocks, and fakes

dev-tea-sinon/reveal.js/content.md, after:

### Sinon.js

Documentation: https://sinonjs.org/

---

#### What is Sinon?

- "Test doubles": Spies, Stubs, Mocks
  - Async code
  - Code w/ external deps (db/network calls)
  - Side effects
- Testing-framework-agnostic

---

#### Stubs

- **Replace** functions
  - Test the ways the deps of your code can be expected to act and the side effects
  - Trigger different code paths (e.g. error-handling)
  - Stub out async funcs - force them to run callbacks immediately
  - Avoid dependency-injection

---

#### Spies

- **Watch** functions being called w/out changing their behavior
- Provides information about func calls:
  - Return values
    - Args
    - number of times called
    - `this` context
    - Exceptions thrown

---

- Two types of spies
  - Anonymous function spies -
    - `sinon.spy()`
      - Use when not testing the behavior of the spied-on function.
      - Created spy records information about all calls.
    - E.g. test how a method handles a callback.
  - Spies that wrap any/all object methods.
    - Creates a spy for the specified method/object and replaces all method calls without changing any of its behavior.
    - NOTE: since spies don't change function behavior, you may need a combination of spies _and_ stubs to prevent network/db calls.

---

#### Mocks

- **Combination** betwn spies and stubs
  - Creates a fake wrapper (like a spy) around the method with pre-programmed behavior (like a stub).
  - Set expectations for the way a function will be called
  - Observes the way a function was called
  - Verify after function completes that all expectations are met

---

#### Also - Fakes

- A fake is a Function that records args, return value, `this context`, and exception thrown (if any) for all of its calls
- Immutable - once it's created, its behavior cannot be changed
- Not used to replace behavior under test
  - Fake function w/ fake behavior you can then use to replace object methods in your test cases: `sinon.replace()`
